# AudioProject
# ISHMAL KHALID 
# 12/11/2020

Project Name: THE MISSING CHILD

Project Description: The project is an assignment for the Communications Lab class where we had to write a script, create a journey through sound and then present it on the website. The project, The Missing Child, is a horror mystery soundscape. It is an abstract narration of a kidnapping of young girl to her unfortunate demise. The storyline address three W’s:  WHERE, WHO and WHY in respective order. The story starts with background setting, transitions to introduction of  different characters and ends with the brutal murder of the child.

Genre: horror/ murder mystery
The story starts with children playing in a forest. One of them is approached by an anonymous lady and fooled to come along her. 
After a little conversation, the innocent child goes along and her set of questions throughout the way helps to create an abstract (mysterious) image of character. The story then transitions to a house/ hut where the child is intentionally  killed.

Process of the audio: All the conversations were recorded indoors with the help of a smartphone recorder. Background sounds were found online such as the rustling leaves, forest birds, drizzling, children playing in background, footsetep, wooden steps and opening of stuck door, machine sounds, horrow music, blood sputtering and the cell phone sounds. The sounds that I recorded myself were the child and the kidnapper's dialogues. In this audio, I played the role of a child and tried to transform my voice to a child-like voice without any external voice converter. The crying, sobbing, suffocating of the child were all self-recorded through a phone recorder. I then compiled the different sounds together through Adobe Premiere Pro adjusting the volume, intensity, pitch and duration of every audio to ensure it perfectly fits with the rest of the audios. Special effects were also added where the volumes needed to be gradually increased or exponentially faded so to ensure that, each audio also had to be cut in several parts each with a different amplitude.

Process of the website: Since the storyline of the audio is dark themed, I decided to go for a similar experience on our website.  The background image for the landing page is of a child walking through a dark gloomy forest. The missing of the title "The Missing Child" is blinking which emphasizes the mysterious nature of the audio and draws in the attention of the audience. Underneath the title, there is a separator which tells the audience a bit about the purpose of our website by showing them that the audio is aired on a radio but is now finally available online. As we scroll down the colors of the navigation bar change until we reach the audio where the initial color is light blue which portrays happiness and carelessness of children's park as the audio begins with the sounds of children playing. When the audio is played, smoke passes on the screen which complements the audio to set the ambience of the place and help the user perceive the forest better through an abstract concept in the absence of visuals. As the audio progresses, the colors of the navigation bar change according to the storyline in the audio which help to set the tone of the website accordingly again. Initially. I implemented 4 videos to show the rain, forest, outside of the hut and the interior of the hut as the audio progressed but later I decided to go with a black screen and only a change in colors of the nav bar to not steal away a user's attention from the audio itself. I believe I was successful in acieving this effect as once the audio starts playing the user is completely immersed into it instead of getting distracted by the scenery in the videos. The nav bar changes colors a total of 5 times through the audio and ends with a blood-red nav bar alongside blood on the screen when the child is killed. As the audio progresses, the color of the audio wave changes to black merging it with the black screen portraying the end of the child's life drawing nearer and nearer. The about page gives more details about our radio series and tells the people to tune into our radio channel every Sunday 6PM to watch the next episode of the series. The team page shows the team behind the website through "Missing" and "Wanted" posters of the team members which represent the child and the kidnapper respectively.

Reflection/Evaluation: I believe that the end product did turn out to nicely complement our initial idea and storyline. My end product of the website was almost the same as my first wireframe except the focus from the visuals majorly decreased because we wanted our audience to dedicate their utmost attention to the sound piece. This project really helped me build massively on my audio editing (and acting) skills. I also learned some added functionalities of Javascript when implementing the audio and the sound wave. In the implementation of the javascript plugin/library called wavesurfer.js, it was challenging since running the index file normally does not show any audio wave representation and editing the wave and modifying it required the setting up of a localhost server which could have been achieved with 'XAMPP'. Therefore, an understanding of the complexity of some of these plugins was achieved and I got more familiar with the Web Development tools embedded in the web browser by using the inspect tools and modifying the undrlying css of the wavesurfer through that. 

Moreover, another thing that I learned was the power that an audio holds in convenying emotions and how every slight detail has the capability to completely alter the tone. Another thing that I realized was that the same audio can be perceived in numerous differnent ways when heard by different people. One instance od this was the audio where I heard the panting of the child, some poeple instead heard the passing by of another perosn. This shpws that lots of meaning that can be derived from a single audio and there is no correct way to know for sure what the creator was aiming to do. This was one of the major reason I decided to remove any visuals from the website so the audience can focus on the audio strictly. Overall, I feel the goals were met and an overall theme was created which brought about the audio and the storyline effectively. 

